src/devel/device/toltec.rst, before:

===============
Toltec Overview
===============

.. raw:: html

    <div class="warning">
        ⚠️ FIXME. ⚠️

This page is just a stub that needs to be completed. You can `open a PR on the repo <https://github.com/Eeems-Org/remarkable.guide>`_ to add more content to the page.

.. raw:: html

    </div>

Filesystem Layout
=================

/opt
----

/opt/etc
--------

/opt/etc/init.d
---------------

Entware packages will add executable scripts here to manage services that you
install. Toltec allows you to manage this with ``rcctl``, which is provided by
the ``entware-rc`` package.

/opt/bin
--------

/opt/libexec
------------

/opt/sbin
---------

/opt/share/remarkable/templates
-------------------------------

/opt/share/launcherctl
----------------------

Executable files in this folder will be treated as possible launchers for
``launcherctl``.

/opt/share/toltec/reenable.d
----------------------------

Contains empty files owned by packages to indicate that they make changes to
the root partition, and will need to be reinstalled when re-enabling toltec
after an update.

/opt/usr/share/backupscrns
--------------------------

Used by ``changescrn`` to backup the stock splashscreens.

/opt/share/remarkable/splashscreens
-----------------------------------

This directory contains the active splashscreen from an installed toltec package.

/opt/usr/share/kernelctl
------------------------

Contains ``tar.bz2`` archives that kernelctl uses to manage the currently
installed linux kernel.

/opt/usr/share/licenses
-----------------------

Some toltec applications will include their licenses, which will be installed
to this folder. Entware doesn't include licenses in it's packages, due to
potential space constraints on the systems it targets.

/opt/share/zoneinfo
-------------------
The ``zoneinfo-utils`` package will mount this to ``/usr/share/zoneinfo`` to
allow ``timedatectl`` to access the full set of timezones. Instead of the subset
that the device comes with.

Systemd Services
================

entware-rc@.service
-------------------

opt.mount
---------

rm2fb.service
-------------

launcher.service
----------------

Launcher Application Registration
=================================

Launcher Registration
=====================

- ``/opt/share/launcherctl/<name>``
- Must be executable.
- Must implement the following:

  - ``is-active``
  - ``is-enabled``
  - ``start``
  - ``stop``
  - ``enable``
  - ``disable``
  - ``logs [-f|--follow]``
  - ``apps``
  - ``running``
  - ``paused``
  - ``launch <name>``
  - ``resume <name>``
  - ``close <name>``
  - ``pause <name>``

Kernels
=======

- /opt/usr/share/kernelctl

Commit message:

flush out more toltec info

src/devel/device/toltec.rst, after:

===============
Toltec Overview
===============

.. raw:: html

    <div class="warning">
        ⚠️ FIXME. ⚠️

This page is just a stub that needs to be completed. You can `open a PR on the repo <https://github.com/Eeems-Org/remarkable.guide>`_ to add more content to the page.

.. raw:: html

    </div>

Filesystem Layout
=================

Toltec uses entware as a base, which means that it tries to follow the filesystem layout that entware uses. Toltec generally tries to follow the same file hierarchy as `archlinux <https://man.archlinux.org/man/file-hierarchy.7.en>`_, when applicable.

/opt
----

Entware, and to the most part, toltec, stores all of it's data in a folder that is mounted to ``/opt``. Toltec puts this folder in ``/home/root/.entware``. All packages are compiled with the assumption that they are stored under ``/opt``.

/opt/etc
--------

Configuration files for packages are generally stored in this directory instead of in ``/etc``.

/opt/etc/draft
--------------

This directory contains application registrations for draft and remux. See `Launcher Application Registration`_ for more information.

/opt/etc/init.d
---------------

Entware packages will add executable scripts here to manage services that you
install. Toltec allows you to manage this with ``rcctl``, which is provided by
the ``entware-rc`` package.

/opt/bin
--------

User executables should be placed in this folder, which makes them available on the user's path.

/opt/libexec
------------

Contains executables that have name conflicts with other executables (e.g. ``wget-ssl`` or ``wget-nossl``). The selected version will be symlinked to ``/opt/bin``.

/opt/sbin
---------

Some packages place their executables in this directory, which is discouraged. ``/opt/bin`` should be used instead.

/opt/share/remarkable/templates
-------------------------------

When ``templatectl`` is installed, this contains the current templates used by xochitl, as it's bind mounted over ``/usr/share/remarkable/templates``. Any template packages that are installed will store their files here and use ``templatectl`` to register them.

/opt/share/launcherctl
----------------------

Executable files in this folder will be treated as possible launchers for ``launcherctl``. See `Launcher Registration`_ for more information.

/opt/share/toltec/reenable.d
----------------------------

Contains empty files owned by packages to indicate that they make changes to
the root partition, and will need to be reinstalled when re-enabling toltec
after an update.

/opt/usr/share/applications
---------------------------

This directory contains application registrations for oxide. See `Launcher Application Registration`_ for more information.

/opt/usr/share/backupscrns
--------------------------

Used by ``changescrn`` to backup the stock splashscreens.

/opt/share/remarkable/splashscreens
-----------------------------------

This directory contains the active splashscreen from an installed toltec package.

/opt/usr/share/kernelctl
------------------------

Contains ``tar.bz2`` archives that kernelctl uses to manage the currently
installed linux kernel.

/opt/usr/share/licenses
-----------------------

Some toltec applications will include their licenses, which will be installed
to this folder. Entware doesn't include licenses in it's packages, due to
potential space constraints on the systems it targets.

/opt/share/zoneinfo
-------------------
The ``zoneinfo-utils`` package will mount this to ``/usr/share/zoneinfo`` to
allow ``timedatectl`` to access the full set of timezones. Instead of the subset
that the device comes with.

Systemd Services
================

entware-rc@.service
-------------------

opt.mount
---------

rm2fb.service
-------------

launcher.service
----------------

Launcher Application Registration
=================================

- `Draft launcher format <https://github.com/dixonary/draft-reMarkable/?tab=readme-ov-file#configuration-files>`_
- `Oxide application registration <https://oxide.eeems.codes/documentation/03_application_registration_format.html>`_

Launcher Registration
=====================

- ``/opt/share/launcherctl/<name>``
- Must be executable.
- Must implement the following:

  - ``is-active``
  - ``is-enabled``
  - ``start``
  - ``stop``
  - ``enable``
  - ``disable``
  - ``logs [-f|--follow]``
  - ``apps``
  - ``running``
  - ``paused``
  - ``launch <name>``
  - ``resume <name>``
  - ``close <name>``
  - ``pause <name>``

Kernels
=======

- /opt/usr/share/kernelctl
